---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #4"
date: 2024-10-04T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from September 27 to October 04, 2024.
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Fixes**
  - Fixed return type conversion in ST partitioner: Corrected an issue where the return type was set to ANY instead of null, causing problems during export.
  - Fixed validation of assigned inputs from outside in ST editor.
  - Fixed Quick-Fix to use the correct model element and ensure unsaved changes are preserved.
  - Fixed issue where typing to invoke the new instance inserter caused the first character to be selected and overwritten.
  - Fixed item reference for manifest update button.
  - Fixed several issues with configured STRUCT_DEMUXERs, including connection parsing and type updates for visible outputs.
  - Fixed GEF API change issues.
  - Fixed sorting issue in System Navigator, preventing folders from collapsing on file rename.
  - Fixed Quickfix for refreshing monitoring elements when no graphical editor is open.
  - Fixed type class caching in FB type entry.
  - Fixed plug type creation in adapter type entry.
  
- **Improvements**
  - Added temporary flag for disabling the rename dialog.
  - Changed UpdateFBInstanceChange to AbstractCommandChange.
  - Added RampLimitFS FBType with setpoint ramping functionality, including event handling and value adjustments based on input parameters.
  - Added Step mode to FollowConnectionHandlers.
  - Added button to toggle Jump/Step mode for following connections.
  - Improved System Navigator sorting for better folder handling.
  
- **Deprecations**
  - Deprecated "editable" type in type entries in favor of using TypeEntry.copyType() or directly getting the type from an editor.
  
- **Other Updates**
  - Updated E_STOPWATCH FBType with new copyright information.
  - Updated to maintain expanded state of Demuxer property sheet tree viewer.
  - Added separate last modification stamp for type editable in entries.
  - Removed extra synchronized in type entry subclasses.


## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE

- **New Functionalities**
  - Added RampLimitFS functionality for signal processing, including algorithms for fast/slow modes, step up/down actions, and loading setpoints.
  - Added SCALE_LIM function block for signal processing with upper and lower limit scaling.
  - Added SCALE function block for general signal processing.
  - Added assembling functions:
    - ASSEMBLE_DWORD_FROM_BOOLS_fct
    - ASSEMBLE_BYTE_FROM_QUARTERS_fct
    - ASSEMBLE_WORD_FROM_BYTES_fct
    - ASSEMBLE_DWORD_FROM_WORDS_fct
      
  - Added splitting functions:
    - SPLIT_DWORD_INTO_WORDS_fct
    - SPLIT_BYTE_INTO_QUARTERS_fct
    - SPLIT_BYTE_INTO_BOOLS_fct
    - SPLIT_WORD_INTO_BYTES_fct
  
- **Updates**
  - Updated E_STOPWATCH FB with new events, handling logic, and state transitions, including algorithms for triggering and resetting the stopwatch.
  - Updated Wago modules for current 4diac FORTE and changed WSTRING to STRING in Wago modules.
  
- **Fixes and Improvements**
  - Fixed typo in slave macro and adjusted libraries for Wago.
  - Called loadTerminalInformation after opening devices to display found devices with IDs.
  - Cleaned up folders and removed non-modular Wago IOs.
  - Migrated Wago modules.

Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
