---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #15"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 15"
date: 2024-12-20T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from December 13 to December 20, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Improved Block Layout Options**  
  - Added wrapping and compacting options for the block layout to reduce width and provide better, more compact layouts.
- **UI Enhancements**  
  - Internal attributes are now hidden in tree views, ensuring a cleaner and more user-friendly interface.
- **Library Management Updates**  
  - Changed linked library location in projects.
    - Removed `SystemPaletteManagement` and replaced explicit strings with `TypeLibraryTags` references.
    - Adjusted associated test cases.
- **Refactoring Enhancements**  
  - Added pre-checks for syntax and linking errors before Structured Text (ST) refactoring, notifying users of potential inaccuracies.
- **Bug Fixes**  
  - Restored correct behavior for initial application generation by re-adding a missing `cmd.execute()` call.
  - Fixed deletion issues with interface pins during `BorderCrossingREconnectCommand`, ensuring pins remain intact when necessary.
  - Corrected handling of `ErrorMarkerInterface` pins in expanded SubApplications to prevent class cast exceptions.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE
- **OPC UA Alarms & Conditions Enhancements**  
  - Created a dedicated Alarms & Conditions (A&C) layer.
  - Enabled triggering alarms on REQ.
  - Added state callbacks for conditions and support for retaining conditions on request.
  - Created OPC UA objects, events, and alarm condition types during initialization.
- **OPC UA Improvements**  
  - Removed operating modes and event modes from the OPC UA A&C layer.
  - Parameterized OPC UA instance names for alarm source objects.
  - Changed NodeIds to type `String`.
  - Added `ModellingRule_Mandatory` to members of the OPC UA type.
  - Enabled support for sending data from Publisher DIs and events.
- **Refactoring and General Updates**  
  - Fixed and moved `ldsMe` to its own class with documentation and updates for v1.4.5.
  - Allowed multiple `ecet` instances to be compiled.



Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
