---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #10"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 10"
date: 2024-11-15T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from November 8 to November 15, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE
- **Editable Columns**
  - Made all columns editable except for the "visible" column while connected.
  - Added "type" as an editable column.

- **Outline and Property Sheet Enhancements**
  - Forwarded outline selection to the property sheet, reflecting changes in the type editor and property sheets.
  - Added a sorter for the outline view to organize FB types better.
  - Reworked presentation of attributes in the outline to include name, type, and value, and, for typed attributes, the package name.
  - Cleaned and reordered children of FB types in the outline and system explorer for better organization.

- **Quickfix and Auto Layout**
  - Added a best-fitting type quickfix, providing suggestions based on deleted type names.
  - Streamlined layout infrastructure and implemented snap-to-grid for auto layout.

- **Performance and Search Improvements**
  - Enhanced model search performance by precompiling search patterns and optimizing evaluation methods.

- **Exporter and Importer Fixes**
  - Fixed "Build Failed" issues caused by problems processing `INOUTS`.
  - Added event type to the exporter.

- **Deployment Debug and Monitoring Enhancements**
  - The monitoring infrastructure was rewworked to better fit into the debug infrastructure using existing Eclipse Platform features resulting in an overall better usabilty and stability.

- **Graphical Improvements**
  - Added an image overlay label for FB shapes.
  - Introduced a graphical annotation image border and watchpoint annotation styler.

- **Refactoring and Simplifications**
  - Simplified contract dialogs by using a general-purpose dialog.
  - Adapted "No Change" option in the refactoring preview to improve user experience.

- **Support for New Standards**
  - Implemented the new Simple Function Block standard, including updates to models, templates, XML import/export, and validation.

- **Other Enhancements**
  - Added support for triggering subapp events.
  - Gracefully handled watching of elements outside a resource.
  - Improved system editor support for interface and FB network elements.
  - Added comments to nodes in the plant hierarchy



Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
