---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #11"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 11"
date: 2024-11-22T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from November 15 to November 22, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Evaluator Improvements:**
  - Avoid unnecessary allocations when parsing values.
  - Avoid unnecessary initialization of variables when a value is supplied, adding copy constructors for struct and array variables.
  - Use evaluator cache when adding or updating watches.

- **Monitoring Enhancements:**
  - Use a fixed delay instead of a fixed rate for polling to prevent overruns.
  - Fix polling interval overflow.
  - Disable changed value detection for sub-variables to prevent flickering in the Variables view.
  - Detect remote disconnects of devices.
  - Fix updates for terminated debug targets to prevent unnecessary watch updates.

- **Structured Text (ST) Editor:**
  - Add a performance mode.
  - Add a cache for expected types.
  - Prefer signed literals in the absence of an expected type in the parser.
  - Fix result types for logical and range operators.
  - Fix operator applicability checks to ensure valid result types for unary and binary operations.
  - Avoid acquiring locks for model listeners if they are empty in the Xtext document.
  - Override the document locker from the Xtext document.
  - Avoid using the "resolve all" option to reduce excessive diagnostics.
  - Implement lazy linking for resources.
  - Use lazy evaluation for result types of standard functions.
  - Avoid file change refreshes in the FB type editor.

- **FB Network Viewer and System UI:**
  - Fix position restoration after type updates by reducing asynchronous behavior.
  - Fix broken connection checking for CFB and Typed SubApp instances.
  - Removed outdated handlers and action providers from the system explorer, such as `RenameSystem` and `SystemExporerNewActionProvider`.

- **Attribute and Property Handling:**
  - Ensure attributes are shown for `var_in_out` pins for inputs.
  - Allow `ConfigurableObjects` to be selected in the attribute property sheet.
  - Use an internal typed attribute for `INOUT_VISIBLE_OUT` to harmonize XML output.

- **Function Block Types:**
  - Update `RangeBasedPulse` FBType to include a comment attribute.
  - Rename a file to remove extra spaces and update algorithm logic for `RangeBasedPulse`.

- **Bug Fixes:**
  - Fix watches for internal variables and function blocks (FBs) in monitoring.
  - Fix the initial value hiding bug when setting `Varinouts` invisible and correct `addPinIndicators`.
  - Fix removal of the watchpoint annotation overlay image caused by outdated code references.
  - Add a null check for importing `InternalFB` objects with no type.
  - Avoid unnecessary imports during dependency resolution.
  - Remove incorrect usage of type editor input in debugging.

- **Refactoring and Code Improvements:**
  - Refactor the callable interface in the model to include varargs, typed elements, and full type names for ST variables.
  - Add a common cache for header and implementation templates in `forte_ng` export.
  - Update `ChangeConfigurationViewer` to work with `IFordiacPreviewChange`.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE
- **New Functionality:**
  - Added a distance module featuring `RangeBasedPulse` functionality.

- **Updated to support the Zephyr 3.7 LTS release:**
  - Adapted code to align with the latest API changes in FORTE.

- **Bug Fixes:**
  - Fixed an issue in the local communication layer by using the group identifier for deregistration instead of a pointer to a vector entry. This prevents invalid pointer usage when groups are created or deleted.



Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
