---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 7"
date: 2024-10-25T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from October 18 to October 25, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE
- **Improvements and Fixes in 4diac IDE:**
  - **Enhancements in Editor and UI functionality:**
    - Use Frameworkutil to create a dictionary in FordiacImageURL.
    - Adjusted column width in Imports-Table to occupy the entire width.
    - Fixed UpdateFbInterfaceChange to prevent duplicated creation.
    - Modified Imports Table column width to fill entire width.
    - Enabled recursive folder creation in type entry.
    - Resolved generic datatype for automatic SubApp pin creation.
    - Fixed System Explorer root content and label provider setup.
    - Ensured SubApp Type Pins table visibility settings.
    - Prevented self-lookup in multi-page editor outline.
    - Addressed attribute lookup in FB networks by linking to sub-importers.
    - Enhanced reload mechanism for the attribute editor with varied composites.
    - Implemented IPersistable in TypeEditorInput to restore editor states.
    - Reworked DescriptionEditor to support all element types.
  - **Structural Changes in Type Editing Infrastructure:**
    - Moved get/setDocumentation methods to LibraryElement for broader use.
    - Removed Title Label from StructComposite for flexibility in usage.
    - Migrated AttributeTypeEditor and DataTypeEditor to the new Type Editing Infrastructure.
    - Centralized type saving logic from FBTypeEditor to AbstractTypeEditor.
    - Added enablement to the type editor page extension point.
    - Extracted common type editor functionalities into AbstractTypeEditor class.
  - **Refinements for Editing and Selection:**
    - Enabled package refactoring with move-to-package feature.
    - Improved System Explorer label providers to show accurate icons and warnings.
    - Optimized outline selection response in FB Type Xtext editor tab.
    - Enhanced marker management with direct thread updating under resource lock.
  - **Error Handling and Quick-Fixes:**
    - Resolved type-check error messages for InOut connections.
    - Improved error messages and formatting preferences for quickfixes and refactorings.
    - Refined handling of markers and resolution logic for configurable FBs.
    - Fixed deadlock during type creation with quickfixes and array subscript access issues.
  - **Tests and UI Enhancements:**
    - Re-enabled Basic2FBNetwork tests with new movement and selection methods.
    - Enhanced FB movement methods in SWTBot for readability in UI tests.


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
