---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #14"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 14"
date: 2024-12-13T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from December 06 to December 13, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE
- **Enhancements:**
  - Updated evaluator for the new simple FB standard:
    - Added EC state handling.
    - Updated related tests.
  - Optimized Sys file generation:
    - Excluded mapped entities to reduce file size and potential git conflicts.
  - Enhanced ST validation for the new simple FB standard:
    - Updated validation messages and quick fixes.
    - Adjusted constants, variables, and methods.
    - Improved algorithm filtering logic and handling of missing algorithms.
  - Introduced new attribute handling in `CreateAttributeCommand`.
  - Added support for editing large values:
    - Improved indexing for large variables in the variable tree.
  - Updated storage format:
    - Refactored XML structure and attributes for clarity.
    - Modified event names, comments, and variable declarations.
  - Added a QuickFix widget for NatTables to handle missing types.
  - Improved System Editor layout:
    - Enhanced expand/collapse behavior and homogeneous layout.
  - Introduced a dedicated GEF-based editor context:
    - Simplified key-binding management and editor activation.
  - Added the Properties View to the Debug Perspective for easier inspection.
  - Updated target platform and dependencies to Eclipse 2024-12.
  - Added new options to `4diac.ini` for improved configuration.

- **Bug Fixes:**
  - Fixed various warnings and deprecated references.
  - Resolved issues with:
    - Connection handling, including broken or conflicting connections.
    - Pasting conflicts in NatTables and improved copy/paste functionality.
    - Duplicate type errors in live validation and builder processes.
    - Breadcrumb hierarchy display in typed subapps.
    - Nested editor site hierarchy in the breadcrumb editor for subapps.
    - Handling pins during reconnections.
  - Eliminated dependency on JDT and the PDE feature.

- **Cleanups:**
  - Removed unused elements:
    - Operational Semantics Wizard.
    - `ISystemEditor` interface.
  - Streamlined code:
    - Cleaned up quick fixes and externalized strings.
    - Addressed issues reported by Sonar.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE
- Added an SBOM in SPDX format to describe optional external dependencies.
- Simplified the Demux FB interface.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FBE

- Added support for:
  - Multiple package versions.
  - SPDX parsing to determine correct package versions.

- Synced with the latest 4diac FORTE changes.

Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
