---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #5"
date: 2024-10-11T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
---

Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from October 04 to October 11, 2024.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **New Features**
  - Added new functions F_NOW and F_NOW_MONOTONIC for timing.
    - These functions return the current local date/time and monotonic clock value, respectively.
      
  - Added a Build 4diac Forte Launcher.
    - New launch configuration to build preconfigured 4diac FORTE using the cmake --build command.

- **UI/UX Enhancements**
  - FB Network Grid now follows IEC 61499 Coordinate System Resolution.
    - Grid resolution matches the size difference between pins, ensuring cleaner drawings and more precise FB positioning.
	  - SetPosition now better handles screen deltas when moving blocks.

    - Aligned Expanded SubApp content on the grid in the X direction.
    - Reworked resizing of Groups, SubApps, and Comment Fields.
      - Improved handling of screen coordinates to reduce rounding errors and improve grid snapping.

- **Validation & Type Handling**
  - Relaxed link creation type check for InOut variables.
  - Validated if defining variable is of generic type for InOut variables.
  - Used defining variable in type checks for InOut variables.
  - Validated attributes on error marker interface.

- **Bug Fixes**
  - Fixed dependency resolution during project creation.
  - Fixed potential null pointer exception on library import.
  - Fixed empty imported namespace for import normalizer in qualified scope.
  - Fixed InOut parameter order for event accessors in forte_ng export.
  - Fixed generation of initial values declaration in forte_ng export when only InOut variables exist.
  - Fixed hover tooltip in ST editor.
  - Fixed issue where only the last file (.cpp) passed to the reused CompareEditor opener was shown.
  - Updated URI of resources on file changes in type entry.
  
- **Refactoring & Code Improvements**
  - Deleted InterfaceDataTypeChange as it was redundant with UpdateFBTypeInterfaceChange.
  - Implemented isValid method for UpdateFBTypeInterfaceChange.
  - Renamed UpdateFBTypeInterfaceChange to AbstractCommandChange.
  - Creation of supporting SWTBot class SWTBotECC (#377).
    - Moved related methods from Abstract4diacUITests, and adapted ECCEditorTests.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE

- **New Features**
  - Added new functions for retrieving current time and monotonic time.

- **Code Improvements**
  - Added assembling and splitting modules to CMakeLists.
    - Assembling module includes various functions.
    - Splitting module includes corresponding functions.
      
  - Added missing vector include for compiling OPC UA support with clang.

- **Consistency Changes**
  - Lowercased selection folder to maintain consistency with the IDE.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FBE

- Fixed the verbose/non-parallel build switch ('-v').
- Updated FORTE to the latest version.
- Made the dynamic link bundling workaround more robust.


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!

Cheers, {{< br >}}
The Eclipse 4diac Team
