---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #13"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 13"
date: 2024-12-06T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from November 29 to December 06, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

### General Clean-Up
- Removed outdated execution runtime launcher classes.
- Removed obsolete extensions for old monitoring.
- Removed unnecessary throws declarations in the debug model.
- Cleaned messages file of `systemmanagement.ui` plugin.
- Fixed warnings and Sonar issues in `systemmanagement.ui`.
- Removed last remnants of the virtual group interface code.
- Cleaned up layout class and refined connection and FB layout configurations.

### Mapping Enhancements
- Fixed parameter handling in `MappingTargetCreator`.
- Enabled automatic connection creation for mapped FBs during mapping.
- Prevented inout connections across subapp borders.
- Added functionality to create mapping target FBs if absent.
- Improved handling of typed subapp networks during mapping to avoid unnecessary loading.

### Monitoring Improvements
- Enhanced variable view with a find action override for both monitoring and evaluator debugging.
- Resolved duplicate watches issue when monitoring multiple devices.

### Validation and Debugging
- Restarted validation jobs canceled due to priority reads.
- Added a quick fix for missing export builders.
- Introduced configuration and validation for 4diac project nature, including Xtext support.

### System Editor Revamp
- Moved application renaming and commenting features from the system explorer to the system editor.
- Reworked system editor to manage the application list exclusively (create, delete, reorder).
- Removed outdated actions, such as `NewApplicationWizard`, align actions from the toolbar, and rename functionality in the system explorer.

### Type Library Updates
- Fixed issues with marker creation in the type library after resource updates.
- Addressed problems with the ST parser meta-model, re-adding necessary Xtext project configurations.

### Miscellaneous Enhancements
- Improved error handling during type updates and refactorings:
  - Copied pin instance comments and propagated initial values for renamed pins.
  - Enhanced handling of attribute copying for error markers.
- Fixed port locations for negative graph coordinates.
- Tweaked layout configuration for FB blocks, reducing width requirements.


## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE
### Memory and Resource Management
- Removed all `delete[]` usage in interface setup, improving memory handling.
- Fixed issues with string node IDs in the object struct helper for better reliability.


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
