---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 8"
date: 2024-10-25T17:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from October 25 to November 1, 2024."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE
- **New Functionalities**
  - Added new FBType `RangeBasedPulse` for distance-based impulse generation.
  - Implemented snap-to-grid functionality for:
    - Context menu FB creation.
    - New SubApp, Group, and Comment elements.
    - Paste action.
    - Drag-and-drop FB creation.
    - Direct edit-created elements.

- **Enhancements**
  - Changed visibility attribute for `VarInOuts` in the Importer and Exporter for accurate saves.
  - Adjusted Imports-Table column to occupy the full width.
  - Updated `InsertFB` handler to support new FB direct editing.
  - Added recursive parent folder creation in type entries.

- **Bug Fixes**
  - Fixed duplicated creation of `UpdateFbInterfaceChange`.
  - Corrected root content setup in System Explorer for proper label and trigger point.
  - Resolved generic datatype in automatic subapp pin creation.
  - Prevented table view display for SubApp Type Pins.
  - Fixed usage of deprecated editable targets in annotation and marker models.
  - Deprecated and cleaned up marker helper methods.
  - Fixed missing dependency in `subapptypeeditor` manifest.
  - Removed unnecessary manifests for non-Fordiac projects.
  
 - **Technical Adjustments**
  - `ECCEditorEditDomain` now delays model request until necessary, resolving issue #672.
  - Improved parsing and memory management:
    - Removed redundant list in `parseSubApp()`.
    - Corrected use of externalized string constants.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE
- **Upgraded 4diac FORTE to support the new API of [open62541](https://www.open62541.org/) version 1.4**
  - Refactored OPC UA server configuration to align with open62541 1.4.
  - Enhanced custom hostname handling to comply with open62541 1.4 requirements.
  - Switched to `unordered_map` in the Abstract OPC UA Handler for performance improvement.
  - Fixed memory leak in UA Logger.

- **Build Improvements**
  - Enabled option to compile only the C library when selected.

Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
