---
title: "Eclipse 4diac FBE 3.0 Enters Beta Stage!"
date: 2025-11-10T09:00:00-00:00
categories: ["Releases"]
type: "newsitem"
description: |
  As part of the 4diac 3.0 release process, 4diac FBE has published its first beta release!

fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

4diac FBE builds 4diac FORTE fully automatically, no manual downloads or installs of third-party software needed. It manages multiple 4diac FORTE configurations for multiple target machines and operating systems on a single developer machine.

It supports x86_64 Linux, x86_64 Windows and ARM64-based MacOS machines as developer machines, and it can cross-build 4diac FORTE binaries for pretty much all relevant MacOS, Windows and Linux targets, including single-board computers like the Raspberry Pi and legacy hardware.

---

Give it a test drive at https://github.com/eclipse-4diac/4diac-fbe/releases/tag/3.0-beta1

Download the ZIP file, extract it, and run `compile.cmd` to create a default full-featured FORTE binary that has enabled more or less all supported communication protocols (like OPC-UA, MQTT and others).

And yes, that single ZIP file with its `compile.cmd` script works on Windows, Linux and MacOS. Read the instructions in the included README file for all the details.

If you find issues or have suggestions, please let us know through the corresponding issue tracker:

- [4diac FBE issue tracker](https://github.com/eclipse-4diac/4diac-fbe/issues)

Your feedback is invaluable in making Eclipse 4diac 3.0 a great release.  
A huge thanks to everyone who contributed code, tests, bug reports, and ideas along the way!

---

*Let’s make 4diac 3.0 our most solid and feature-rich release yet!*
