---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #20"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 20"
date: 2025-01-31T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from January 24 to January 31, 2025."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Eclipse 4diac IDE Updates

- **Usability & UI Improvements**  
  - Pressing Enter now moves to the next editable cell in the variables dialog.  
  - Introduced a feature to open types directly in the editor from the instance viewer.  
  - Unified the preference page setup and removed unnecessary plugin activators.  

- **Editor & Code Handling Enhancements**  
  - Fixed issues with special characters `$` and `\` in comments to prevent misinterpretation during replacements.  
  - Improved ST resource saving by using a copy of internal elements for reconciling and simplifying the load process.  
  - Fixed premature apply in the initial value editor when selecting proposals due to loss of focus.  

- **Library & Project Management**  
  - Fixed issues when closing projects in the Library Manager, preventing broken type library instances.  
  - Removed unnecessary Draw2d & GEF examples from the target platform to keep dependencies minimal.  

- **Deployment & Model Search Enhancements**  
  - Fixed deployment of outgoing subapp connections to ensure correct target name generation (#744).  
  - Enhanced model search to notify users if results may be inaccurate due to errors in ST code.  
  - Added a basic reference search for Function Block Types.  

- **ST Language & Syntax Improvements**  
  - Fixed incorrect data type keywords in ST highlighting.  
  - Migrated ST highlighting from Xtend to Java for better maintainability and performance.  

- **Other Improvements**  
  - Converted `ModelQuerySpec` to a record structure.  
  - Introduced a dedicated severity level for right interface bar collisions.  

## Eclipse 4diac FORTE Updates

- **Improved Device Compilation**  
  - Introduced a device factory and new CMake commands for handling multiple devices.  
  - Optimized code size when compiling for a single device.  

- **Protocol & Performance Enhancements**  
  - Updated Modbus layer header to properly handle IP address sizes.  
  - Added a new CMake variable for configuring the maximum interval time.  
  - Introduced a maximum wait time for OPC UA server iterations to improve stability.  

## Eclipse 4diac FBE Updates

- **Toolchain & Compatibility Updates**  
  - Updated toolchains.  
  - Restored Windows XP compatibility for open62541.  
  - Fixed version selection mechanism to improve detection and compatibility.  


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
