---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #17"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 17"
date: 2025-01-10T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from January 03 to January 10, 2025."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Improvements**
  - Added a separate warning for truncating literal conversions, including exceptions for semantically relevant cases.
  - Improved type inference for nested binary expressions by ensuring operand types are converted to required unsigned or bit types before determining the common result type. Fixed the equivalent unsigned type for INT.
  - Enhanced graphical editor appearance for fractional native scaling by using the exact `swt.autoScaling` parameter, improving drawing aspect ratios on non-integer scaling settings (e.g., 125%, 175%).
  - Updated application and window icons to the new 4diac logo.

- **Bug Fixes**
  - Fixed missing `equals` handling for signed/unsigned and integer/bit value comparisons.
  - Resolved issues with URI conversion for 4diac system paths containing spaces.
  - Removed potential trailing slashes in library extraction URLs, which interfered with linking the preferred version.
  - Fixed initialization of `LibraryManager` to ensure proper setup when creating the first project in a new workspace.

- **Features**
  - Added support for converting old projects without dependencies, avoiding potential overrides of existing manifests.

- **Other Changes**
  - Added missing license information for the Interpreter Feature.


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
