---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #16"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 16"
date: 2025-01-03T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from December 20, 2024 to January 03, 2025."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Usability Enhancements**
  - Improved FB Debug View by using Watch colors consistently.
  - Reworked Open Type Dialog to reduce blocking behavior, enhancing performance.
  - Added new icon for library directories.
  - Changed default Watch colors for better contrast on light themes and introduced styles for dark themes.
  - Added settings for monitoring text colors.

- **Error Handling and Validation**
  - Improved error handling in value converters to avoid null pointer exceptions (NPEs) and enhanced error messages during array and struct parsing.
  - Fixed conversion of prefixed values in structs and arrays to handle type prefixes (e.g., `T#`, `DATE#`) correctly.
  - Added validations and quick fixes for package declarations in the Structured Text (ST) editor, ensuring alignment with folder structures (disabled by default).

- **Bug Fixes**
  - Corrected segment checks in `ConnectionRoutingData` for floating-point coordinates.
  - Fixed error pin display logic for non-system attributes, including `VarInOut`, `Event`, and Input/Output Pins.
  - Resolved issues with renamed methods and typos (e.g., in `DataTypeInstanceSearch`).
  - Fixed handling of `EditPartViewers` when their `EditPartFactory` editor is null, preventing NPEs.
  - Improved handling of binary expression types to ensure operand compatibility and fixed type inference for call arguments to avoid recursion issues.

- **Clean-ups and Refactoring**
  - Removed unnecessary `EditorInputFactories` as part of breadcrumb editor optimization.
  - Refactored mapping commands to use a common `MappingTargetCreator` helper class.
  - Removed redundant configuration updates in `ConfigurableFB` mapping generation.
  - Harmonized Maven GitHub workflows for release and development branches.

- **New Features**
  - Added all 4diac IDE type files as XML content with appropriate bindings for editor compatibility.
  - Updated exporter to use fully qualified names (FQN) for attributes with `attributeDeclarations`.

- **Testing**
  - Added tests for type inference in the Structured Text (ST) parser.

## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE
- **OPC UA Improvments**
  - Reworked the creation of OPC UA Struct Types and Instances to support nested structures.


Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
