---
title: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly #25"
slug: "Eclipse 4diac Weekly 25"
date: 2025-03-07T7:00:00-00:00
categories: ["4diacweekly"]
type: "newsitem"
description: "Update on what development happened across the Eclipse 4diac project in the week from February 28 to March 07, 2025."
fordiacTeamGreating: true
---


## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac IDE

- **Structured Text (ST) Parser Improvements**
  - Fixed type usage with semi-qualified names.
  - Ensured correct imports for global constants (e.g., `util::Math::PI`).

- **Refactoring and Code Cleanup**
  - General refactoring and minor fixes.
  - Removed redundant methods in `ResourceTypeExporter`.
  - Removed DOCTYPE entry from resource export for consistency.

- **Resource Handling Enhancements**
  - Implemented `ResourceTypeExporter` and modified save method.
  - Fixed resource naming bug.

- **Improved Model and UI Features**
  - Implemented rename and move participants for subapps, systems, and folders.
  - Changed default scope in model search to project.
  - Moved color preferences to theme colors.
  - Renamed and moved message properties files.

- **Event Type and Connection Enhancements**
  - Added `GenericClassName` attribute to event types (`'GEN_E_MUX'`).
  - Handled generic `Event` type in crossing subapp connections.
  - Allowed connections to/from generic `Event` type.

- **Contract Support and Editor Updates**
  - Added contract support in SubApps.
  - Added editor to new contract dialog.
  - Removed unused and outdated contract tests.

- **Bug Fixes and Other Improvements**
  - Fixed NPE without snapshot in delta in ST import updater.
  - Exported 4diac FORTE Core Includes with full source directory.



## Enhancements and Fixes in 4diac FORTE

- **Type Handling and Naming Fixes**
  - Fixed generic type creation for packages (#311).
  - Improved handling of long type names for configurable demuxers.

- **Build System and Multi-Device Enhancements**
  - Updated to latest development version and fixed `#ifdef` issues.
  - Added proper default name for devices in CMake.
  - Removed default fake timer and moved it into the device.
  - Added multi-device support.

- **IO Configuration Enhancements**
  - Made `getId` method private.
  - Added `getId` method to determine ID for IO configuration reference.
  - Used non-empty `PARAMS` input as ID for IO mapping.

- **ADS Support Updates**
  - Generated ADS FBT files (`ADS_SERVER_CONFIG`, `SET_LOCAL_ADS_ADDRESS`) from IDE to also use `EInit`.

- **Event Demultiplexer Cleanup**
  - Removed unused `E_DEMUX8` component.
  - Cleaned up `CMakeLists` and updated source file references.
  - `GEN_E_DEMUX_fbt` replaces the removed demultiplexer.



Many thanks to all contributors for their work and their feedback!
